[Wrangler] Rollbacks & Views (#7492)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/workers/platform/deployments.md

{{<Aside type="note">}}

Deployments are currently in Public Beta and subcommands are currently in Beta. Please report Deployments bugs to the [Wrangler team](https://github.com/cloudflare/wrangler2/issues/new/choose).

{{</Aside>}}

Deployments are a log of static historical versions of your Worker. They track changes to the bundled code, bindings, compatibility date, and usage model associated with a Worker over time. They also keep metadata associated with the deployment including the user, deploy source, timestamp, and other useful information to understand and audit who or what is making changes to your Worker.

> The latest deployment for a Worker is considered the "active deployment". [You can view your latest 10 deployments via the cloudflare dashboard or the `wrangler deployments` command.](#Interacting-with-Deployments)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The latest deployment for a Worker is considered the "active deployment". You can view your latest 10 deployments [via the Cloudflare dashboard](#via-the-cloudflare-dashboard) or the [`wrangler deployments` command](#via-wrangler).
```

{{<Aside type="note">}}

Associated resources for a worker such as KV, R2, Durable Objects etc. will not be tracked with deployments.

{{</Aside>}}

## Creating a new Deployment

> New Deployments will be created whenever an upload, binding change (including environment variables and secrets), usage model change, or [rollback](#rollbacks) is made. These can be done via the Cloudflare Dashboard, [Workers API](/api), or [`wrangler publish` command](/workers/wrangler/commands#publish).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New Deployments are created whenever an upload, binding change (including environment variables and secrets), usage model change, or [rollback](#rollbacks) is made. These can be done via the Cloudflare Dashboard, [Workers API](/api), or [`wrangler publish` command](/workers/wrangler/commands#publish).
```

> Notably, this does not include changes to bound resources. For example if two workers (Worker A and Worker B) are bound via a service binding, changing the code of a Worker B will not trigger a new deployment on Worker A. Further changes to the service binding on Worker A will not trigger a new deployment for Worker B.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notably, this does not include changes to bound resources. For example, if two workers (Worker A and Worker B) are bound via a service binding, changing the code of a Worker B will not trigger a new deployment on Worker A. Changes to the service binding on Worker A will also not trigger a new deployment for Worker B.
```

Wrangler allows you to view the 10 most recent deployments as well as source code, bindings and runtime information about a specific deployment.

More details about the `wrangler deployments` and `wrangler deployments view` command can be found [here](/workers/wrangler/commands#deployments).

### via the Cloudflare Dashboard

Access Deployments by logging into the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com) > **Account Home** > **Workers** > selecting your Worker project > **Deployments**. Deployments includes information about previous deployments, and your Worker’s detail page will now indicate information about the most recently deployed and currently active deployment.

### via the API

Read more about accessing Deployment information via Cloudflare's REST API [here](/api/#worker-deployments-properties).

{{<Aside type="note">}}

Deployments are in active development. To give feedback, request a [live chat](https://www.cloudflare.com/lp/developer-week-deployments).

{{</Aside>}}

## Rollbacks
Rollbacks are a way to quickly deploy an older deployment to the edge. This could be useful if a breaking change or unintended publish is made to a production Worker.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

There are currently two ways to perform a rollback: via Wrangler or via the Cloudflare Dashboard.
```

### via Wrangler

> You can rollback in wrangler using the `wrangler deployments rollback` command, you can learn about it [here](/workers/wrangler/commands#rollback).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can rollback in Wrangler using the `wrangler deployments rollback` command detailed [here](/workers/wrangler/commands#rollback).
```

### via the Cloudflare Dashboard

> In the deployements tab under your Worker you can select the menu dropdown on the right of the deployment and select **`Rollback to this deployment`**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Dashboard, find the deployments tab under your Worker. From there, you can select the menu dropdown on the right of the deployment and select **`Rollback to this deployment`**.
```

> Rollbacks are only valid to the latest 10 deployments. Further rollbacks will be invalid if external resources have been deleted or modified between the target deployment and the active deployment. Specifically if:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Limitations

Rollbacks are only valid to the latest 10 deployments. 

Rollbacks will not be allowed if external resources have been deleted or modified between the target deployment and the active deployment. Specifically if:
```

{{<Aside type="note">}}

Deployments are currently in Public Beta and subcommands are currently in Beta. Please report Deployments bugs to the [Wrangler team](https://github.com/cloudflare/wrangler2/issues/new/choose).

{{</Aside>}}

Deployments are a log of static historical versions of your Worker. They track changes to the bundled code, bindings, compatibility date, and usage model associated with a Worker over time. They also keep metadata associated with the deployment including the user, deploy source, timestamp, and other useful information to understand and audit who or what is making changes to your Worker.

> The latest deployment for a Worker is considered the "active deployment". You can view your latest 10 deployments [via the Cloudflare dashboard](#via-the-cloudflare-dashboard) or the [`wrangler deployments` command](#via-wrangler).

Reviewer: @deadlypants1973 let's keep it lower-case since it's not a product name.

{{<Aside type="note">}}

Deployments are currently in Public Beta. Report Deployments bugs to the [Wrangler team](https://github.com/cloudflare/wrangler2/issues/new/choose).

{{</Aside>}}

Deployments are a log of static historical versions of your Worker. They track changes to the bundled code, bindings, compatibility date, and usage model associated with a Worker over time. They also keep metadata associated with the deployment including the user, deploy source, timestamp, and other useful information to understand and audit who or what is making changes to your Worker.

> The latest deployment for a Worker is considered the "active deployment". You can view your latest 10 deployments [via the Cloudflare dashboard](#via-the-cloudflare-dashboard) or the [`wrangler deployments` command](#via-wrangler).

Reviewer 2: fixed :)

{{<Aside type="note">}}

> Associated resources for a worker such as KV, R2, and Durable Objects are not tracked with deployments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Associated resources for a Worker such as [KV](/workers/wrangler/workers-kv/), [R2](/r2/), and [Durable Objects](/workers/learning/using-durable-objects/) are not tracked with deployments.
```

{{</Aside>}}

## Creating a new deployment

New deployments are created whenever an upload, binding change (including environment variables and secrets), usage model change, or [rollback](#rollbacks) is made. These can be done via the Cloudflare dashboard, [Workers API](/api), or [`wrangler publish` command](/workers/wrangler/commands#publish).

Notably, this does not include changes to bound resources. For example, if two Workers (Worker A and Worker B) are bound via a service binding, changing the code of a Worker B will not trigger a new deployment on Worker A. Changes to the service binding on Worker A will also not trigger a new deployment for Worker B.

{{<Aside type="note">}}

Changing triggers such as routes, custom domains, or cron triggers will not issue a new deployment.

{{</Aside>}}

> ## Interacting with Deployments

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Interacting with deployments
```

### via Wrangler

Wrangler allows you to view the 10 most recent deployments as well as source code, bindings and runtime information about a specific deployment.

> More details about the `wrangler deployments` and `wrangler deployments view` command can be found [here](/workers/wrangler/commands#deployments).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information on the `wrangler deployments` and `wrangler deployments view` commands, refer to the [commands documentation](/workers/wrangler/commands#deployments).
```

Reviewer 2: 👍

2. The [Cloudflare dashboard](/workers/platform/deployments/#via-the-cloudflare-dashboard-1).

### via Wrangler

To perform a rollback via Wrangler, use the `wrangler deployments rollback` command. Refer to [Wrangler `rollback` command documentation](/workers/wrangler/commands#rollback) for more information.

### via the Cloudflare Dashboard

To perform a rollback via the Cloudflare dashboard:

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com) and select your account.
2. Go to **Workers** > select your Worker > **Deployments**. 
3. Find the deployment you would like to rollback to.
4. Select the three dot icon on the right of the deployment and select **Rollback to this deployment**.

## Limitations

Rollbacks are only valid to the latest 10 deployments. 

Rollbacks will not be allowed if external resources have been deleted or modified between the target deployment and the active deployment. Specifically, rollbacks will not be allowed if:

- A Durable Object migration has occurred between the active deployment and target deployment.
- If the target deployment has a binding to an R2 bucket, KV namespace, or queue that no longer exists.

> - If the target deployment has a binding to a D1 database (this limitation will be removed in the future)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If the target deployment has a binding to a D1 database (this limitation will be removed in the future).
```

> ## Creating a new Deployment

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Creating a new deployment
```

> New Deployments are created whenever an upload, binding change (including environment variables and secrets), usage model change, or [rollback](#rollbacks) is made. These can be done via the Cloudflare Dashboard, [Workers API](/api), or [`wrangler publish` command](/workers/wrangler/commands#publish).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
New deployments are created whenever an upload, binding change (including environment variables and secrets), usage model change, or [rollback](#rollbacks) is made. These can be done via the Cloudflare dashboard, [Workers API](/api), or [`wrangler publish` command](/workers/wrangler/commands#publish).
```

> Notably, this does not include changes to bound resources. For example, if two workers (Worker A and Worker B) are bound via a service binding, changing the code of a Worker B will not trigger a new deployment on Worker A. Changes to the service binding on Worker A will also not trigger a new deployment for Worker B.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Notably, this does not include changes to bound resources. For example, if two Workers (Worker A and Worker B) are bound via a service binding, changing the code of a Worker B will not trigger a new deployment on Worker A. Changes to the service binding on Worker A will also not trigger a new deployment for Worker B.
```

## Rollbacks

> Rollbacks are a way to quickly deploy an older deployment to the edge. This could be useful if a breaking change or unintended publish is made to a production Worker.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

Rollbacks are a way to quickly deploy an older deployment to the Cloudflare global network. This could be useful if a breaking change or unintended publish is made to a production Worker.
```

Reviewer 3: `Edge` should now be replaced by `global network` in docs.

> There are currently two ways to perform a rollback: via Wrangler or via the Cloudflare Dashboard.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Perform a rollback via:

1. [Wrangler](/workers/platform/deployments/#via-wrangler-1).
2. The [Cloudflare dashboard](/workers/platform/deployments/#via-the-cloudflare-dashboard-1).
```

### via Wrangler

> You can rollback in Wrangler using the `wrangler deployments rollback` command detailed [here](/workers/wrangler/commands#rollback).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To perform a rollback via Wrangler, use the `wrangler deployments rollback` command. Refer to [Wrangler `rollback` command documentation](/workers/wrangler/commands#rollback) for more information.
```

### via the Cloudflare Dashboard

> In the Dashboard, find the deployments tab under your Worker. From there, you can select the menu dropdown on the right of the deployment and select **`Rollback to this deployment`**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To perform a rollback via the Cloudflare dashboard:

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com) and select your account.
2. Go to **Workers** > select your Worker > **Deployments**. 
3. Find the deployment you would like to rollback to.
4. Select the three dot icon on the right of the deployment and select **Rollback to this deployment**.
```

> ## Limitations
> Rollbacks are only valid to the latest 10 deployments. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Limitations

Rollbacks are only valid to the latest 10 deployments. 
```

> Rollbacks will not be allowed if external resources have been deleted or modified between the target deployment and the active deployment. Specifically if:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Rollbacks will not be allowed if external resources have been deleted or modified between the target deployment and the active deployment. Specifically, rollbacks will not be allowed if:
```

- A Durable Object migration has occurred between the active deployment and target deployment.

> - If the target deployment has a binding to an R2 bucket, KV namespace, or Queue that no longer exists.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If the target deployment has a binding to an R2 bucket, KV namespace, or queue that no longer exists.
```

Deployments are in active development. To give feedback, request a [live chat](https://www.cloudflare.com/lp/developer-week-deployments).

{{</Aside>}}

## Rollbacks
Rollbacks are a means to change the code running on the edge, this can be used for instance if there is an unintended publish. 
It is not limited to just the previous deployment, rollbacks can currently be done up to 10 deployments back from the current one.
There are scenarios where you cannot rollback which include:
1. 
2.
3. 
Additionally there are caveats with resources bound to the deployment, for instance the structure of your resource may have changed since the deployment

> being rolled back onto, in which the deployed code would handle the resource data erroneously. 

Author: Pending.

Reviewer 4: * A durable object migration has occurred between latest deployment and target deployment
* If the target deployment has a binding to an R2 bucket, KV namespace, or Queue that no longer exists
* Currently if the target deployment has a binding to a D1 database, this will be removed in the future
